---
layout: post
title: Production Project 1 - Sweet Creature
subtitle: I am still very proud of it, despite all the things I think are wrong.
tags: [Harry Styles,Sweet Creature,Blue Yeti mic,Audacity,reverb,guitar,export,selfmedicate,dontknowher,youtube]
comments: true
readtime: true
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jby7d3KZefg?si=nIBrrllbv7yhQE-U" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Welcome to our first production project!

If you missed last week's post, I'll link it [here](/2024-03-20-ep1-somebody-to-love-queen).

These videos are most likely going to be shorter than the ones that analyze songs and albums, but these posts have 2 separate videos. These videos are going to be the ones that vary in length the most because some songs will be way more difficult in terms of editing and mixing, whereas others, like today's song, are more straightforward.

Today we're trying to recreate "[Sweet Creature](https://youtu.be/8uD6s-X3590?si=4Ywbi9ldeacwPBpV)" by Harry Styles. My goal was to get as close as I can to the original recording with my limited resources.

I currently use a Blue Yeti microphone and Audacity. Are they fancy? No, but they work and are an affordable option!

I started by making a list of everything I needed for the project including the instruments and a general sketch of the editing needed.

After I made the list, I created a rough schedule for production. Things can get moved around, but it gives me an idea what needs done. Especially when I don't have much time before my "due date" for my projects. For this project, I did have a hard due date because this is being used as a school project as well!

Once my schedule was in place, I brushed up on the guitar part for the song. I've been working on it for a few months and just needed a short review. Then I recorded the guitar part.

Once I had the guitar part recorded I moved on to the vocals. I finally started the editing portion.

I was continually listening back to the original recording so that I could get the levels right. It was a lot of switching the sound then going back to make sure it was right... and switching again. It's definitely not an exact copy as my voice is very different from Harry Styles. It also wasn't my best vocal day and on top of that, it's not the easiest range for my voice.

I am still very proud of it, despite all the things I think are wrong.

Once I finally got through that, I gave the whole thing a listen and made some more adjustments. I then exported the audio file and took a break.

After my break was over, I listened to it again, realized the balance was off a little bit, and went back in and adjusted it. Then I had to export it all again to make sure I had it ready!

Finally I picked a cover photo for the YouTube and uploaded it along with this video of all the details!

Give it a listen and let me know how I did. I know I'm not all fancy, but I did it!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RLzYqtweUks?si=KE6d_Zsb4-O2leFk" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

As always, leave [suggestions](/suggestionsform.md) for songs and albums! I will also be uploading the videos as soon as I have them done, which will likely be before the blog post because I go off book quite often and have to add things to posts. So in other words, if you want first watch/listen, subscribe to my [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJjN0ekhHr2-lyNhRAMcpOA)!

I am so excited for what's to come, especially next week! We're going to be analyzing a song that I've been absolutely obsessing over since it came out on Monday night. At this point I think I'm using that song to "[selfmedicate](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lD3vbL7nh4o)."

See you guys next week!